Adapting Teams to Enterprise Needs by Vale (#259)
xmartlabs/blog: _posts/2023-10-02-adapting-teams-to-enterprise-needs.md

![Team Support](/images/adapting-teams-to-enterprise-needs/team-support.png)

## Ensure Constant Communication

In the realm of client-vendor partnerships, effective communication is the linchpin of success. While having a dedicated account manager is valuable, it should never hinder direct interaction between the client and the development team.

Successful collaborations thrive on shared objectives. Every team member, regardless of their organization, should share a common goal: delivering outstanding results. This unity is only possible when communication channels remain transparent and accessible.

In the spirit of strong partnerships, clients should be regarded as more than mere recipients of services; they should be integral members of the team. This integration transcends titles, offering every team member, whether from the client's side or the vendor's, a direct line of communication.

## Keep an Active Search

A key aspect of having a flexible and adaptable team is ensuring that you will be able to cover any new roles that arise.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Sometimes you will be able to do so with internal talent, with people you have on the bench or on other projects, but oftentimes, the role or technology is one you might not have the internal capabilities for.

> In order to avoid delays, it's advisable to keep a constant proactive search for those niche roles that might be harder to find within the market.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To avoid potential delays, it's advisable to proactively seek individuals with specialized skill sets that may be harder to find within the market. 
Once identified, ensure internal approval for these niche roles, and inform the client about these potential candidates who could complement and enhance the team. 
This proactive approach not only streamlines the recruitment process but also reinforces transparency and client collaboration.```

> At Xmartlabs, our recruiters are constantly on the lookout for possible candidates for those positions that are harder to fill and that usually take more time. Once a possible match is found, they undergo an interview process that includes instances with the team that's already working for the client and that they will potentially work with, and that culminates with a screening with the client so they can give the go-ahead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An effective way to operationalize this approach is by establishing a systematic process. 
For instance, at Xmartlabs, our dedicated recruiters consistently identify potential candidates for specific positions. Upon identifying a prospective match, candidates undergo a thorough interview process, including a technical assessment to evaluate their skillset and a cultural interview aimed at gauging their alignment with Xmartlabs' team culture and ethos.

Once candidates successfully navigate these assessments, they are introduced to the team collaborating with the client—the team they may potentially join. I
f this introduction is well-received and everything aligns positively, the candidate, having already been internally validated, proceeds to a screening call with the client prior to onboarding. 
This step allows the client to give their approval, ensuring a cohesive and well-matched collaboration from the outset.
```
